Introduction
------------

Starting with version 0.24.8, LiteStep now uses the same parser for both
conditional expressions (If and ElseIf) and expressions enclosed in dollar
signs ($). The new parser also adds new features not previously available,
such as comparison and concatenation of strings and builtin functions.


Variable Names
--------------

In order to work with the math parser, a variable name must not begin with a
digit or contain any of the following reserved characters:

  ! $ & * ( ) - + = [ ] ; " ' < > , /

Furthermore, it is recommended that you do not use @, #, or | (vertical bar),
because these characters may become reserved in the future.


Data Types
----------

Values in an expression are of one three fundamental types: Boolean, number,
or string. Booleans are logical true or false values. Numbers are IEEE 754
double-precision numbers, which includes the special values: positive/negative
infinity and Not a Number (NaN). There is no distinct integer data type, as
integers are subsumed by the number type. Strings are sequences of characters.

As an expression is evaluated, values are automatically converted to different 
types as necessary. In the event that an explicit type conversion is needed,
use one of the conversion functions. Whether implicit or explicit, type
conversions follow the same set of rules, which are described in the section
on Functions, below.


Undefined Variables
-------------------

For compatibility reasons, conditional expressions (If and ElseIf) can use
undefined variables without generating an error. Any operator or function
applied to an undefined value produces an undefined result. If the result of a
conditional expression is undefined, then it is treated as if it were false.

This behavior, while supported in 0.24.8, will be removed in the future. The
correct way to detect undefined variables is to use the "defined" keyword:

  If defined(SomeVariable)
  If not defined(AnotherVariable)

Defined behaves like a function that takes a variable name and returns true if
that variable is defined or false if it is not. Defined is not, however, a
real function because its argument must be a variable name.

Using an undefined variable in an inline expression (one enclosed in $'s)
generates an error, just as it always has.


Operators
---------

The operators that LiteStep supports are listed below from highest precedence
to lowest precedence. With the exception of the three unary operators, all
operators are binary and left associative.

Unary:          + - not
Multiplicative: * / div mod
Additive:       + -
Concatenation:  &
Relational:     = < <= > >= <> !=
Logical AND:    and
Logical OR:     or

Identity (unary +)
  Returns the operand, converted to a number.

Negation (unary -)
  Returns the negative of the operand, converted to a number.

Logical Complement (not)
  Returns the logical complement of the operand, converted to a Boolean.

Multiplication (*)
  Returns the product of the operands, converted to numbers.

Division (/)
  Returns the ratio of the operands, converted to numbers.

Integer Division (div)
  Returns the quotient from a truncating division of the operands, converted
  to numbers.

Modulus (mod)
  Returns the remainder from a truncating division of the operands, converted
  to numbers.

Addition (+)
  Returns the sum of the operands, converted to numbers.

Subtraction (-)
  Returns the difference of the operands, converted to numbers.

Concatenation (&)
  Returns the concatenation of the operands, converted to strings.

Relational Operators (=, <, <=, >, >=, <>, !=)
  Returns true if the given relationship holds between the operands. If both
  operands are strings then they are compared as strings, otherwise they are
  compared as numbers. The inequality operators <> and != are interchangeable.
  String comparison is case-sensitive.

Logical AND (and)
  Returns true if both of the operands, converted to Booleans, are true.

Logical OR (or)
  Returns true if either of the operands, converted to Booleans, are true.


Functions
---------

LiteStep supports a small set of builtin functions that you can use in
expressions. These functions are listed below in alphabetical order, with a
short description.

abs(number)
  Returns the absolute value of the argument, converted to a number.

boolean(value)
  Returns its argument, converted to a Boolean. Zero, Not a Number (NaN), and
  the empty string map to false. All other values map to true.

ceil(number)
  Returns the ceiling (least greater integer) of the argument, converted to a
  number.

contains(string, string)
  Returns true if the second argument, converted to a string, is a subtring of
  the first argument, converted to a string.

endsWith(string, string)
  Returns true if the second argument, converted to a string, is a suffix of
  the first argument, converted to a string.

floor(number)
  Returns the floor (greatest lesser integer) of the argument, converted to a
  number.

if(condition, then, else)
  Converts its first argument to a Boolean. If its true, returns the second
  argument (then). If its false, returns the third argument (else). This 
  function lets you do simple conditionals in an inline expression.

integer(value)
  Returns the argument, converted to an integer. Conversion to integer is the
  same as conversion to number, except that infinites and NaNs become zero.

length(string)
  Returns the length of the argument, converted to a string.

lowerCase(string)
  Returns the argument, converted to a string, in lower case.

max(number, number)
  Returns the larger of its arguments, converted to numbers.

min(number, number)
  Returns the smaller of its arguments, converted to numbers.

number(value)
  Returns its argument, converted to a number. For Booleans, true maps to 1
  and false maps to 0. A string is parsed as a numeric literal; if parsing
  fails, the string is mapped to NaN.

pow(number, number)
  Returns the first argument, converted to a number, raised to the power of
  the second argument, converted to a number.

round(number)
  Returns the argument, converted to a number, rounded to the nearest integer.

startsWith(string, string)
  Returns true if the second argument, converted to a string, is a prefix of
  the first argument, converted to a string.

string(value)
  Returns the argument, converted to a string. For Booleans, true maps to
  "true" and false maps to "false". Numbers are formatted as strings in the
  standard way.

sqrt(number)
  Returns the square root of the argument, converted to a number.

upperCase(string)
  Returns the argument, converted to a string, in upper case.
